## Jobs

### Exercise 1

a) Ubuntu: `sudo apt install htop`, OpenSUSE: `sudo zypper in htop`

b) `cd jobs/`

c)`./infiniteLoop.sh`

d) (press Ctrl+C, Mac users make sure to press the "control" key)

e) `./infiniteLoop.sh &`

f) `fg`

g) For this it's best to press `Ctrl+Z` to suspend the job and then type `bg` which will move it to the background. CTRL+C is now insufficient to kill it.

*Note:* running this script as a background job is pretty ugly because it still spams the console. In order to stop this you would need to redirect the output to somewhere else. However redirection is not the topic we are covering in the exercise and the output helps you to see if the program is still running or not.

h) The PID can be found it using htop, top works similar but is not recommended. In htop you can see the name of the running processes totally on the right and on the left you can see the PID of that process. Remember the PID.
j) One way is to use `kill -9 PID`.
i) 
```
    ./infiniteloop.sh &
    ./infiniteloop.sh &
    ./infiniteloop.sh &
    jobs
    kill %2
    kill %1
    kill %3
 
```

*Note:* The percentage symbol can also be used with fg and bg to move specific jobs into the foreground or background.

### Exercise 2

In order to find the PID we will use the `ps` command. Just type ` ps -e ` this will list every process in your system. Again find the infiniteLoop.sh and remember it's PID. Since we used `kill -9` last time we will do something else this time. A very nice way to kill a process is using pkill. The nice thing about pkill is that you do not need the PID. Simply type in `pkill -SIGKILL infinite`.

Another thing you could use is xkill. However xkill will kill the entire terminal not just the one process.
